---
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
title: 3.5-3.7 Student Lesson (group 3)
description: My homework for the 3.5-3.7 lesson
permalink: /students/groupthree
image: /images/thumbsup.jpg
categories: [week 14]
---

### Hacks

- For the first hack, pretend you are a school's test grader. Create an array with integers, each integer representing one score from a student's taken tests. If the average of the student's test scores are at least 75 percent, then display that the student is elligible for credit, and if not, display that the student must retake the tests over break. 
- The second hack is more number-oriented. Create an algorithm that calculates the sum of two numbers, then determines whether the sum is greater than or less than 100.
- The hacks above was heavily derived from CollegeBoard. As a computer science student, you should be able to create an algorithm utilizing conditionals. Try something number-oriented if you get stuck. Creativity gets points.

## Hacks
- Create 3 differnt flow charts representing nested statements and transfer them into code.
- Create a piece of code that displays four statements instead of three. Try to do more if you can.
- Make piece of code that gives three different recommandations for possible classes to take at a scholl based on two different condtions. These conditions could be if the student likes STEM or not.

Kahoot quiz:


Level I: Vowel Count
Return the number (count) of vowels in the given string. We will consider a, e, i, o, u as vowels for this challenge (but not y). The input string will only consist of lower case letters and/or spaces.

Hint: If you use a lot of if-statements and there are more than one outcome, that is to be expected. If not, don't panic, just keep trying.

Level II: Who Likes It?
You probably know the "like" system from Facebook and other pages. People can "like" blog posts, pictures or other items. We want to create the text that should be displayed next to such an item.

Implement the function which takes an array containing the names of people that like an item. It must return the display text as shown in the examples:

[] --> "no one likes this"

["Peter"] --> "Peter likes this"

["Jacob", "Alex"] --> "Jacob and Alex like this"

["Max", "John", "Mark"] --> "Max, John and Mark like this"

["Alex", "Jacob", "Mark", "Max"] --> "Alex, Jacob and 2 others like this"

Note: For 4 or more names, the number in "and 2 others" simply increases.

Hint: This requires you to combine knowledge on lists along with the conditionals you learned in this lesson.

Level III: Mutliples of 3 or 5
If we list all the natural numbers below 10 that are multiples of 3 or 5, we get 3, 5, 6 and 9. The sum of these multiples is 23.

Finish the solution so that it returns the sum of all the multiples of 3 or 5 below the number passed in. Additionally, if the number is negative, return 0 (for languages that do have them).

Note: If the number is a multiple of both 3 and 5, only count it once.

Hint: What do you know about for loops? Since your code incorporates a list of numbers from 1 to the max number, can you use for loops along with conditionals?

Level IV: Likes vs. Dislikes
YouTube had a like and a dislike button, which allowed users to express their opinions about particular content. It was set up in such a way that you cannot like and dislike a video at the same time. There are two other interesting rules to be noted about the interface: Pressing a button, which is already active, will undo your press. If you press the like button after pressing the dislike button, the like button overwrites the previous "Dislike" state. The same is true for the other way round.

Create a function that takes in a list of button inputs and returns the final state.