---
toc: true
comments: true
layout: post
title: 5.1 and 5.2 (beneficial/harmful effects of tech) Notes/Reflection
description: Taking notes and reflecting on the 5.1 and 5.2 lessons.
permalink: /collegeboard/MCQ2
image: /images/MCQ2.jpg
categories: [week 20, recourses, collegeboard]
---
## Lesson Notes
### Google vs ChatGPT
- Google = multiple POV, cite sources
- ChatGPT = real time suggestions, one POV, cannot cite sources, computer bias, banned in some schools

### computer bias:
- are we inserting our own bias into the answers? (intentional or unitnentional)
- one opinion or not testing for everyone (ex: face scanner not working on people with darker skin)

### Are games/social media bad for our health?
- Avantages:
    - stay connected with friends and family who live further away
    - more oportunity/connections
    - can talk from far away
    - help other students with hw
- Disadvantages:
    - body image/self confidence
    - comparing lives <- become ungrateful and unhappy
    - less time outside/sleeping
    - less face to face conversation
    - may develop social anxiety

### The Digital Divide:
- some countries/areas in the US have little to no access to technology
- factors to divide: socioeceonomic, geogrphic, demographic (ethnicity, education, religion, etc)

### Technology in Education
- technology has been a very helpful tool in education
- however, opens up doors for inappropraite activity
- many schools block websites/tools
- ^ can limit opportunity and learning



### Blog Post Reflections
#### 5.1
1. Come up with three of your own Beneficial and corresponding Harmful Effects of Computing
    - Benefits: faster design/creation process, less error, accessable from many computers
    - Harmful Effects: less creative, less room for improvement/understanding, many dont have access to technology (digital divide)
2. Talk about dopamine issues above. Real? Parent conspiracy? Anything that is impacting your personal study and success in High School?
    - I think social media has had a huge impact on the world. Many teenagers end up unhappy and ungreatful with their lives since they are comparing theirs to those on social media. However, influencers only post the good and exciting parts of their lives, leading to a false sense of sadness and jealousy from others. I have felt this before. However, social media also allows me to connect more with my peers. it is easier to communicate, stay in touch, and grow closer to my friends/family. Overall, I don't think society could decide on if social media is "bad" or "good".

#### 5.2
1. How does someone empower themself in a digital world?
- Someone could empower themself by educating themselves as much as possible. If one knows how the digital world works, they can use it to their advantage.
2. How does someone that is empowered help someone that is not empowered. Describe something you could do at Del Norte HS.
- I could help to empower someone at DNHS by teaching them some of what I've learned about technology. That way, they could get help with homework, have more recources, and stay connected to peers and teachers
3. Is paper or red tape blocking digital empowerment? Are there such barriers at Del Norte? Elsewhere?
- Yes, Poweay Unified School District blocks many sites and tools that are digital. It has already limited us in this classroom, when trying to deploy pur sites for our <u>class</u>. This shows how these barriers can negatively effect our learning. Barriers anywhere can limit opportunities. I understand they are trying to keep students safe. However, they will just use a hotspot or VPN and access the site anyway.

## Canvas Blog Questions:
1. three beneficial effects of my project:
    - can help keep users healthy and fit
    - gives motivation to workout and stay healthy
    - can help keep track of Independent PE (ISPE)
2. potential harmful effect of my project:
    - can be hard to maintain/form body image obessesion
3. What are pros/cons on internet blockers at router and lack of admin password on lab machines at school?
    - Pros: can protect students from harmful information, keep the internet safe from inappropriate sites, keep students focused on education only
    - Cons: limits oppourtunities and information, can be a hassle to get around (ex: hotspot to deploy sites in APCSP), students can get around it anyway
4. What concerns do you have personally about the digital divide?  For yourself or for others.
    - Personally, I have been very fortunate to have access to technology and learn how to use it. I am concerned for those that don;t have access, or recently aquired access to technology. They won't be as "tech savvy" and efficient. If a lot of students are trying to learn a subject with the use of thechnology. a student with newly aquired technology may spend more time trying to pull up or learn to take notes then actually learning the subject.